# Today's Highlights from /r/politics

Date and time of publication of these highlights: **Thursday, September 17, 2020, 13:39**.

## We’re grassroots organizers who, together, have registered hundreds of thousands of voters - ahead of National Voter Registration Day, AMA!

Summary of [original article](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iumf9u/were_grassroots_organizers_who_together_have/):

> First observed in 2012, it quickly gained momentum and 8 years later, nearly 3 million voters have registered to vote on the holiday. We represent a cross-section of the hundreds of grassroots organizations on the ground in communities across the county that are ensuring every eligible voter is registered and ready to vote. Matthew Pitt from NYC Votes: NYC Votes is the voter outreach and engagement campaign of the Campaign Finance Board, conducted under the guidance of its Voter Assistance Advisory Committee.

`/u/Animecat365` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iumf9u/were_grassroots_organizers_who_together_have/):

> In your opinion, what is the best thing an average citizen can do to help drive up voter registration?

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Mitch McConnell rams through six Trump judges in 30 hours after blocking coronavirus aid for months. Planned Parenthood warned that "many" of the judges have "hostile records" toward human rights and abortion

Summary of [original article](https://www.salon.com/2020/09/17/mitch-mcconnell-rams-through-six-trump-judges-in-30-hours-after-blocking-coronavirus-aid-for-months/):

> U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Planned Parenthood warned that "Many" of the judges have "Hostile records" toward human rights and abortion. The Senate has confirmed more than 260 judges nominated by Trump, but McConnell complained in the statement that "Senate Democrats have forced us to break more filibusters on nominations since 2017 than had occurred cumulatively in all of Senate history before President Trump was sworn in." "Mitch McConnell has been blocking $25 billion in USPS funding for 124 days, legislation to restore Voting Rights Act for 284 days & legislation to prevent foreign election interference for 328 days," he wrote, "But confirmed six more extreme Trump judges in 30 hours."

`/u/Custergrant` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iult3i/mitch_mcconnell_rams_through_six_trump_judges_in/):

> This. Trump, McConnell, and Barr will be studied for years to come as the holy trinity of government corruption. These three alone have done more damage to our country than any foreign military or terrorist ever could. They have systematically corrupted and usurped the Congress, the Courts, the Executive, and the rule of law itself to the core.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Michelle Obama: 'We could've never gotten away with' what the Trump White House does

Summary of [original article](https://thehill.com/blogs/in-the-know/in-the-know/516885-michelle-obama-we-couldve-never-gotten-away-with-what-the-trump):

> Says as Black Americans, she and former President Obama "Never could've gotten away with some of the stuff that's going on now" in the White House because their "Community wouldn't have accepted that." "When we were in the White House, we could've never gotten away with some of the stuff that's going on now, not because of the public, but our community wouldn't have accepted that. You worked, you did your best every day. You showed up," Obama said. Referring to nationwide protests against systemic racism and police brutality sparked by the May death of George Floyd while in the custody of Minneapolis police, Obama said, "The fact that there are people out there that treat us less than, when we're working so hard to be better than, that's where the pain comes from. That's what these young people are so angry about."

`/u/Daisy_Doll85` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iumng0/michelle_obama_we_couldve_never_gotten_away_with/):

> She is absolutely not wrong about that. Take any *one* thing Trump has done in the sea of lies, scandals and manipulations. Just one would have been a collective Republican meltdown. Hell, Obama still had to deal with people hanging effigies of him outside the White House. A tan suit and mustard was a big deal.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Democrat who opposed equal marriage defeated by gay drag queen in landslide victory

Summary of [original article](https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2020/09/16/earl-jaques-jr-eric-morrison-drag-queen-anita-mann-democrat-delaware/):

> An incumbent Democratic lawmaker who opposed equal marriage has been defeated by a gay drag queen. Earl Jaques Jr, who has sat in the Delaware House of Representatives since 2009, lost out to progressive challenger Eric Morrison - a popular local drag queen known who performs as Anita Mann. Drag queen wins in a landslide despite smears on campaign trail.

`/u/hildebrand_rarity` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iunlf3/democrat_who_opposed_equal_marriage_defeated_by/):

> >	Morrison claimed 61.13 per cent of the vote in Tuesday’s Democratic primary for house district 27, while, Jaques received just 38.87 per cent.
> 
> And it wasn’t even close. 
> 
> The Democratic Party doesn’t have room for bigotry, keep voting these assholes out.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Graham opponent says he raised $1M in a day after poll showed tied race

Summary of [original article](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/516864-graham-opponent-says-he-raised-1m-in-a-day-after-poll-showed-tied-race):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article.

`/u/hildebrand_rarity` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iul74f/graham_opponent_says_he_raised_1m_in_a_day_after/):

> First off, his name is Jaime Harrison and I can't wait to fucking vote for him.
> 
> >The Quinnipiac poll also found that Graham's support narrowly trails that of Trump, while Harrison slightly outperforms Democratic presidential nominee [Joe Biden](https://thehill.com/people/joe-biden), raising questions over conservative’s argument that Trump’s support among his base will help lift GOP candidates down-ballot. 
> 
> Secondly, the poll shows that Trump's support among his base isn't helping the other GOP candidates. Vote every single one of them out.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## FBI director confirms "very, very active" Russian efforts to interfere in election

Summary of [original article](https://www.axios.com/fbi-director-russia-election-ac152f12-a992-4882-8677-b7d5d16dc918.html):

> FBI Director Chris Wray on Thursday told Congress the bureau has seen "Very active efforts by the Russians to influence our election in 2020," primarily to "Denigrate Vice President Biden and what the Russians see as kind of an anti-Russian establishment." Why it matters: It confirms previous statements from various intelligence officials about Russia's interference activities, which continue with less than 50 days until the election. The big picture: Wray said that his biggest concern related to election security is the "Steady drumbeat of misinformation and sort of amplification of smaller cyber intrusions" that could sow distrust in the results of the election.

`/u/Custergrant` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iumuk3/fbi_director_confirms_very_very_active_russian/):

> Meanwhile, [the President contends that Democrat governors pose a bigger threat to the election than foreign interference.](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-trump/democratic-governors-pose-bigger-threat-to-election-than-foreign-countries-trump-idUSKBN2673LD)

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Noam Chomsky: The world is at the most dangerous moment in human history

Summary of [original article](https://www.newstatesman.com/world/2020/09/noam-chomsky-world-most-dangerous-moment-human-history):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article.

`/u/BeautifulPudding` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/iuk3v7/noam_chomsky_the_world_is_at_the_most_dangerous/):

> **10 Things You Need to Know to Stop a Coup**
> 
> https://choosedemocracy.us/prepare/
> 
> **1. Don’t expect results Election night.**
> 
> Election night 2020 is shaping up to be very unusual. Many mail-in ballots may not be counted until days or weeks after Election Day. Since Democrats are expected to use them more frequently than Republicans, voter tallies are expected to swing towards Democrats post-election night (they call it a “blue shift”). A wave of confusion may unfold starting Election night.
> 
> During this time expect false flags and outlandish claims. Be very cautious with news. Don’t simply pass on whatever seems dramatic examples of wrongdoing — but take the time to check if it has been verified, already debunked, or from a source you don’t trust.
> 
> Encourage people in your community to prepare for some uncertain weeks. As election results start coming in the message needs to come through loud and clear: count all the votes.
> 
> **2. Do call it a coup.**
> 
> People who do power grabs always claim they’re doing it to save democracy or claim they know the “real” election results. This doesn’t have to look like a military coup with one leader ordering the opposition to be arrested.
> 
> We can know it’s a coup if the government:
> 
> Stops counting votes;
> Declares someone a winner who didn’t get the most votes; or
> Allows someone to stay in power who didn’t win the election.
> Here’s just one possible scenario: the night of the election (November 3) no victor is determined. Ballots keep getting counted. Meanwhile, there are claims (likely with minimal evidence) the incoming mail-in ballots now being counted are fraudulent. On December 14 the delegates for the electoral college meet in the state capital. But if the results are being contested, Governors and State Legislatures may each send in different results — one reflecting the results from voters, the other claiming “it’s a fraud” and “we know best” — undermining the integrity of the voting process.
> 
> This set of differences has to get resolved on January 6 by the new Congress. And if the House and Senate don’t agree about the result, then a convoluted process unfolds where the newly seated House selects (one-state-one-vote) the President and the Senate (by Majority) votes for the new Vice President.
> 
> In any scenario, if any of those three principles are violated, we have to declare loudly and strongly: this is a coup.
> 
> **3. Know that coups have been stopped by regular folks.**
> 
> Coup attempts have happened all over the world, and over half have failed. That’s because coups are hard to orchestrate. Because they are a violation of norms, they require quick seizure of multiple levels of institutions with a claim that they are the rightful heir.
> 
> Coups tend to fail when: government institutions (like elections) are trusted, there is an active citizenry, and other nations are ready to become involved.
> 
> The role of citizenry is crucial. That’s because during the period right after a coup attempt— when the new government is claiming it is the “real” government — all the institutions have to decide who to listen to.
> 
> A failed coup in Germany 1920 gives an example. The population felt beaten down by defeat in World War I and high unemployment. Right-wing nationalists organized a coup and got the help of a few generals to seize government buildings.
> 
> The deposed government fled but ordered all citizens to obey them. “No enterprise must work as long as the military dictatorship reigns,” they declared.
> 
> Widespread nonviolent resistance quickly began. Printers refused to print the new government’s newspapers. Civil servants refused to carry out any orders from the coup. And leaflets calling for an end to the coup were spread by airplane and by hand.
> 
> There’s a story of the coup leader wandering up and down the corridors looking in vain for a secretary to type up his proclamations. The acts of resistance grew and eventually the democratic government (which still had grave problems) was returned to power.
> 
> The moments after a coup are moments for heroism amongst the general population. It’s how we make democracy real.
> 
> **4. Be ready to act quickly — and not alone.**
> 
> Typically power grabs are organized in secret and launched suddenly. Most campaigns that defeat coups do so in days: Soviet Union in 1991 took 3 days, France in 1961 took 4 days, and Bolivians in 1978 took 16 days.
> 
> It’s rare for any country leader to publicly admit they might not respect the results of an election. There’s some good news in that — because people who stop coups rarely have the chance to get training, warning, or preparation. In that way, we’re ahead of the game.
> 
> A group of DC insiders ran multiple simulations on Trump attempting to hold onto power no matter what. In every simulation they concluded that a “show of numbers in the streets may be decisive.” Regular people make the difference.
> 
> To start preparing, talk to at least 5 people who would go into the streets with you — the safest way to take to the streets is with people you know and trust. Talk to people you know in civil service and various roles about how they could non-comply with coup attempts. Use this time to get yourself ready to act.
> 
> **5. Focus on widely shared democratic values, not on individuals.**
> 
> In Argentina 1987, a coup got started when an Air Force Major, resenting attempts to democratize the military and bring it under civilian control, organized hundreds of soldiers at his base.
> 
> While the civilian government tried to quietly negotiate a settlement, people took to the streets. Against the government’s pleading, 500 regular citizens marched to the base with the slogan “Long live democracy! Argentina! Argentina!” They weren’t attacking the Major — they were appealing to their fellow citizens to choose democracy.
> 
> The Major tried to keep them away with a tank, but the protesters entered the base anyway, and he knew that open firing on nonviolent civilians would cause him to lose more credibility. Soon 400,000 people took to the streets in Buenos Aires to rally in opposition to the coup.
> 
> This gave strength to the civilian government (which had largely been absent). Civic organizations, the Catholic church, business groups, and labor unions united under a pledge to “support in all ways possible the constitution, the normal development of the institutions of government and democracy as the only viable way of life of the Argentines.” The coup plotters lost their legitimacy and soon surrendered.
> 
> This approach is different than protesters going in the street with a list of issues or a grievance against a leader. Instead, it’s using widely-shared language that’s about core democratic values. We use the language of “choosing democracy.”
> 
> **6. Convince people not to freeze or just go along.**
> 
> Image that a corrupt boss gets fired and a new one is brought in. Instead of leaving, your old boss says, “I’m still in charge. Do what I say.” A bunch of your co-workers say, “We only take orders from the old boss.” At that point, doubt arises.
> 
> That doubt is how coups succeed. Enough people freeze. Even when only a few people go along with the coup and act as though that’s normal, people may reluctantly accept it as inevitable.
> 
> In all the research on preventing coups, there’s one common theme: people stop doing what the coup plotters tell them to do.
> 
> In Germany, from military commanders to secretaries, they refused to obey the orders of the coup. In Mali they called a nationwide strike. In Sudan protestors shut down government-supported radio stations and occupied airport runways. In Venezuela all shops were closed.
> 
> Coups are not a time to just watch and wait until “someone else” figures it out. No matter who you are you can be part of choosing democracy.
> 
> **7. Commit to actions that represent rule of law, stability, and nonviolence.**
> 
> Stopping a coup is dependent on the size of mobilizations and winning over the center. It is really a fight for legitimacy. Which voice is legitimate? Some people will have already made up their minds. The aim then is convincing those who are uncertain — which may be a more surprising number than you expect.
> 
> But to swing to our side, that uncertain center has to be convinced that “we” represent stability and “the coup plotters” represent hostility to the democratic norms of elections and voting.
> 
> We prevent that possibility when we dehumanize potential defectors, make sweeping statements like, “the police won’t help”, never encourage people to join our side, and create chaotic scenes on the street.
> 
> Historically, whichever side resorts to violence the most tends to lose. In a moment of uncertainty, people pick the side that promises maximum stability, respects democratic norms, and appears to be the safer bet. It’s a contest of who can be the most legitimate.
> 
> Mass resistance to coups wins by using walk-outs and strikes, refusing orders, and shutting down civil society until the rightful democratically elected leader is installed. For mass movements to succeed against coups, they should refuse to do violence to the other side.
> 
> (Part 2 in next comment. Split for length)

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

