# Today's Highlights from /r/politics

Date and time of publication of these highlights: **Thursday, June 24, 2021, 08:35**.

## Republicans Want You (Not the Rich) to Pay for Infrastructure

Summary of [original article](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/23/opinion/infrastructure-plan-tax-republicans.html):

> Chief among these schemes that Republicans have identified are so-called user fees, like road tolls and a new fee on vehicle miles traveled. Unlike progressive taxes, user fees - whether assessed by public entities or by private firms contracted with the state - are not generally varied by ability to pay. Some particular fees - including those for street parking, and congestion pricing schemes - are often justified as internalizing public costs of socially deleterious behavior, analogous to "Sin taxes" assessed on alcohol and tobacco.

`/u/Maxcactus` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o6xt54/republicans_want_you_not_the_rich_to_pay_for/):

> Twenty-one senators, led by Rob Portman of Ohio, a Republican, announced a new outline agreement for an infrastructure package last week. Disagreement over tax changes derailed previous talks, but this bipartisan group claimed to have identified a set of proposed financing sources that could pay for new spending “without raising taxes.” Reportedly, the largest among those was $315 billion from alternative financing schemes known as public-private partnerships.
> 
> The legislators are jumping through these hoops in the first place because for the past three decades, the Republican Party has organized its agenda around an absolutist principle: no new taxes, ever. But despite the senators’ insistence, these arrangements do not actually avoid extractive charges on residents. They just launder the new fees through private investors.
> 
> Rather than the government financing the rebuilding of roads and bridges that get you across town, you pay a private company operating in contract with the government — while policymakers pretend that they have avoided imposing new costs.
> 
> Chief among these schemes that Republicans have identified are so-called user fees, like road tolls and a new fee on vehicle miles traveled. The White House rejected such proposals as violating its own tax pledge: a promise not to increase taxes on families earning under $400,000 annually. As President Biden observed, “If everything is paid for by a user fee, the burden falls on working-class folks, who are having trouble.”

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Top general slams Gaetz' 'offensive' question about military 'wokeness'

Summary of [original article](https://www.msnbc.com/deadline-white-house/watch/author-and-vanderbilt-professor-michael-eric-dyson-reacts-to-gop-anger-over-general-milley-s-study-of-critical-race-theory-115354181647):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article. (ERROR: <class 'smmryapi.SmmryAPIException'>)

`/u/doowgad1` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o6zcf3/top_general_slams_gaetz_offensive_question_about/):

> Matty Matt was born in 1982.  Would have been eligible to join the military on 09/12/2001.  A quick check on Wiki shows no service time.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## DeSantis signs bill requiring Florida students, professors to register political views with state

Summary of [original article](https://www.salon.com/2021/06/23/desantis-signs-bill-requiring-florida-students-professors-to-register-political-views-with-state/):

> Public universities in Florida will be required to survey both faculty and students on their political beliefs and viewpoints, with the institutions at risk of losing their funding if the responses are not satisfactory to the state's Republican-led legislature. Though the bill does not specify what the survey results will be used for, both DeSantis and Rodrigues suggested that the state could institute budget cuts if university students and staff do not respond in a satisfactory manner. Florida Senate President Wilton Simpson was more pointed in his criticism Tuesday at a meeting of the state university system's Board of Governors, calling the institutions "Socialism factories" - again without much detail on what makes the schools so left-wing.

`/u/Genius-Imbecile` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o6pybe/desantis_signs_bill_requiring_florida_students/):

> So let me see if understand this. 
> 
> Mask mandates are fascist.
> 
> Vaccine requirements are fascist.
> 
> Forcing someone to register their political views is not fascist.
> 
> Is that how we're playing things?

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Covid is already deadlier this year than all of 2020. So why do many in U.S. think the problem’s over?

Summary of [original article](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/24/covid-is-deadlier-this-year-than-all-of-2020-why-do-americans-think-its-over.html):

> Ireland's Health Minister Stephen Donnelly seemed to get to the crux of why high-income countries are pursuing a me-first approach to vaccines when speaking to the country's Newstalk radio station earlier this year. "The rate of decline in most regions has slowed and every region has countries that are seeing a rapid increase in cases and deaths. In Africa, the number of cases and deaths increased by almost 40% in the past week, and in some countries, the number of deaths tripled or quadrupled," Tedros said at a briefing on Monday. "While a handful of countries have high vaccination rates and are now seeing lower numbers of hospitalisations and deaths, other countries in Africa, the Americas and Asia are now facing steep epidemics. These cases and deaths are largely avoidable," Tedros said.

`/u/rise2vibe` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o6wvpx/covid_is_already_deadlier_this_year_than_all_of/):

> As far as the US goes, the unvaccinated and the pro pandemic people are not going to change their minds, and therefore COVID varients will kill many Americans annually from here on out.   My immediate family is fully vaccinated. we will get boosters or annual shots as needed. We will  likely always have to be careful in public for the rest of our lives just as a sensible precaution as the covid variants spread and propagate.  This is the reality that the conservatives have brought to us.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Marijuana legalization has won - Marijuana legalization is sweeping states from Connecticut to New Mexico. The writing is on the wall.

Summary of [original article](https://www.vox.com/2021/4/12/22371929/marijuana-legalization-connecticut-biden):

> The US is nearing a tipping point of sorts on marijuana legalization: Almost half the country - about 44 percent of the population - now lives in a state where marijuana is legal or soon will be legal to consume just for fun. Of the 15 states where marijuana legalization has been on the ballot since 2012, it was approved in 13 - including Republican-dominated Alaska, Montana, and South Dakota. Marijuana legalization is very popular In the span of two decades, marijuana legalization has gone from a fringe issue to one the vast majority of Americans embrace.

`/u/Master_Motherfucker` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o6st90/marijuana_legalization_has_won_marijuana/):

> Wisconsin will fight this and continue locking people up for it until the bitter end.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Parkland parents tricked ex-NRA president into a ‘graduation speech’ to empty chairs representing gun victims

Summary of [original article](https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2021/06/24/david-keene-nra-fake-graduation-speech/):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article. (ERROR: <class 'json.decoder.JSONDecodeError'>)

`/u/prampsler` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o71a4t/parkland_parents_tricked_exnra_president_into_a/):

> >Earlier this month, David Keene, a former president of the National Rifle Association, stood on an outdoor stage in Las Vegas as he addressed thousands of empty white chairs. Keene was rehearsing his speech to the James Madison Academy’s 2021 graduating class.  
> “Let me begin by telling you what an honor it is to be here to help celebrate your graduation,” said Keene, 76. “There are some who will continue to fight to gut the Second Amendment, but I’d be willing to bet that many of you will be among those who stand up and prevent them from succeeding.”  
> But the 3,044 white chairs he faced were never meant to be filled. The private online high school? It never existed.  
> It was all a carefully organized stunt designed to prove a point, Manuel and Patricia Oliver — whose son Joaquin Oliver, 17, was killed in a mass shooting at his high school in Parkland, Fla., in 2018 — said in a video released Wednesday, with each chair symbolizing a student killed by gun violence. The edited videos from the Olivers’ group, Change the Ref, show Keene and John Lott, a gun-rights activist and author, as they address the empty seats, mixed with audio of 911 calls made during mass shootings at schools.  
> “We are here representing every single kid that is not able to finish high school,” Manuel Oliver said in one video. “Three thousand kids that are not using those chairs because they are not here and they won’t be here.”  
> Keene did not immediately respond to messages from The Washington Post late Wednesday. But Lott said he only learned the true purpose of the event when contacted by reporters on Wednesday. Lott claims his nearly 15-minute speech, which was condensed in a nearly two-minute clip, was “selectively” edited and taken out of context.  
> “Gun control advocates and Democrats will fight you tooth and nail,” Lott told the nearly empty venue. “They want to go off and say we’ve stopped three-and-a-half million dangerous people, I look at it as we’ve stopped three-and-a-half million law-abiding citizens who wanted to get a gun.”  
> “It was purposefully edited to radically change what I said,” Lott, 63, told The Post. He says his point was that people of color who meet the criteria to legally own a gun, and who are the “most vulnerable,” are often denied them because of what he calls errors in the system.  
> “I wasn’t arguing about background checks,” he said. “I was explaining to people how they can change the system to make it better.”  
> “They left all of that stuff out,” he added.  
> Lott also said he did not plan to discuss background checks when he agreed to participate in the event after a man identified as the board chairman at James Madison Academy contacted him in mid-May.  
> But days before the event, the man requested he discuss background checks and the Second Amendment. When Lott said he was uncomfortable, the man said the students were conservatives and the Second Amendment had been part of this academic year’s core curriculum, Lott said, so he ultimately agreed.  
> In an email Lott shared with The Post outlining his speech, Lott told the board chairman, “I still feel uncomfortable getting into this type of political discussion for a commencement because it seems to me that commencements should be talks that leave everyone satisfied.”  
> But Lott agreed to drive from Montana to Nevada for the rehearsal on June 4. That day, he met the supposed school principal, the event organizer and the man who identified as the board chairman, he said. The team of about 20 technicians scattered around the venue, flying drones. A tent with equipment and banners with the high school’s logo on both sides of the stage didn’t raise any suspicion that the event might be fake, Lott said.  
> Before he began his speech, he was told the staff would record him in case something happened the following day during commencement, Lott said. Then, Lott, who was there to receive the “Keeper of the Constitution Award,” took the stage.  
> “Your school was named after James Madison and he proposed what became the Second Amendment to the Constitution, that there’s an individual right for people to be able to keep guns for protection,” Lott said. “Can you name me one place in the world, any place in the world, that’s banned either all guns or all handguns and seen murder rates go down? I can’t find a single place like that.”  
> The following day, Lott said, his contact told him the commencement was canceled because of security threats. Lott said he tried to contact the man multiple times to follow up about the commencement, the travel expenses they promised to reimburse and nearly half of the $1,000 they still owed him, but never got a response.  
> Lott asked the organizers to release the full video of his speech.  
> “If somebody wants to debate me, I’m happy to debate,” Lott said. “If they had confidence in their arguments then they wouldn’t find it was necessary to take my talk and cut it up and make it come across as if I was saying things very different from what I was saying.”  
> But Change the Ref, which produced the stunt with help from advertising agency Leo Burnett and production company Hungry Man, BuzzFeed News reported, argued that Lott and Keene should have done more research to learn that the school was fake.  
> “Ironically, had the men conducted a proper background check on the school, they would have seen that the school is fake,” Change the Ref tweeted.  
> Manuel Oliver also said the message behind the fake graduation went beyond tricking the two speakers.  
> “This is not about bragging about doing this to the former president of the NRA,” he said. “No, this is about pushing our reps to move on with universal background check laws.”  
> He added, “We lost Joaquin three months before his graduation. We know exactly the feeling of being there and receiving the diploma without your kid being there. Because we understand that, we know there are a lot of people going through that same experience right now.”

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## US military chief links Capitol riot to ‘white rage’ and defends study of critical race theory

Summary of [original article](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/mark-milley-white-rage-capitol-b1871658.html):

> The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, had a strong reaction when pressed on the issue of critical race theory before the House Armed Services Committee. Critical race theory used to be a fairly unknown academic term, but has recently been picked up by Republicans hoping to use it as a political cudgel against their opponents. "On the issue of critical race theory, a lot of us have to get much smarter on whatever the theory is," General Milley said.

`/u/puja_puja` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o6otra/us_military_chief_links_capitol_riot_to_white/):

> >‘I’ve read Mao Zedong, I’ve read Karl Marx, I’ve read Lenin – that doesn’t make me communist,’ says General Mark Milley
> 
> Nah, nothing will change their minds. You're a communist if you are against a white christian ethnostate.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Michigan Republicans Debunk Voter Fraud Claims in Unsparing Report — the report, produced by a G.O.P.-led committee in the State Senate, exposes false claims made about the 2020 election by Trump allies in Michigan and other states

Summary of [original article](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/23/us/politics/michigan-2020-election.html?smid=tw-share):

> While the report eviscerates claims about election fraud, its authors also use the allegations to urge their legislative colleagues to change Michigan's voting laws to make absentee voting harder and limit the availability of drop boxes for absentee ballots, as Republicans have done in other swing states as they try to limit voting. Referring to Antrim County in Northern Michigan - where local election officials briefly and inadvertently transposed voting numbers before correcting them, leading to false conspiracy theories about voting machines - the report suggests that Michigan's attorney general, Dana Nessel, a Democrat, should "Consider investigating those who have been utilizing misleading and false information about Antrim County to raise money or publicity for their own ends." It adds that anyone who promoted the Antrim County theories as the prime evidence of a nationwide conspiracy to steal the election had left "All other statements and actions they make in a position of zero credibility." While Mr. Trump claimed that more votes had been cast in Detroit than people who live there, the report found that turnout in the city was under 50 percent of eligible voters and about 37 percent of its population.

`/u/SpottedHaggis` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/o700hh/michigan_republicans_debunk_voter_fraud_claims_in/):

> And then they went ahead and endorsed voting restrictions, because of "the doubts". The doubts they just dispelled.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

