# Today's Highlights from /r/worldnews

Date and time of publication of these highlights: **Monday, January 18, 2021, 12:02**.

## B-52 US bombers fly over Middle East; Iran condemns intimidation. Iranian foreign minister says the US would be better off spending its military billions ‘on your taxpayers’ health’.

Summary of [original article](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2021/1/18/b-52-us-bombers-fly-over-middle-east-iran-condemns-intimidation):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article. (ERROR: <class 'simplejson.errors.JSONDecodeError'>)

`/u/DrMatter` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzx08x/b52_us_bombers_fly_over_middle_east_iran_condemns/):

> " better off spending its military billions on its tax payers health" 
> 
> Oof

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Nova Scotia becomes the first jurisdiction in North America to presume adults are willing to donate their organs when they die

Summary of [original article](https://newsinteractives.cbc.ca/longform/organ-donation-nova-scotia?fbclid=IwAR0Fv4Uv48pw1GygEHZb-9dY0dkcWJJyIWPgYt9lMfv0RK5VWHYVU-xxIlI):

> The number of people who donated organs in the province suddenly dropped to a record low, just 16. "At any given time in Atlantic Canada, there's around 300 people who are awaiting an organ, most of them require a kidney." The province had 34 organ donors in 2020, a new record that pushed Legacy of Life beyond its goal of 30 a year within five years, achieved even before the opt-out law was implemented.

`/u/Woknblues` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzw3lj/nova_scotia_becomes_the_first_jurisdiction_in/):

> This is reasonable. I also think it’s ok for people to “selfishly not donate their organs”. It’s their body and their business.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## ‘Appalling’: World leaders blast Russia over Navalny arrest

Summary of [original article](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2021/1/18/serious-matter-world-leaders-blast-russia-over-navalny-arrest):

> The service earlier said it would seek to have Navalny serve his three-and-a-half-year sentence behind bars for the 2014 charge, which Navalny claims is politically motivated. Police officers stand outside a police station where detained Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny is being held, in Khimki outside Moscow, Russia January 18, 2021 Alexander Baunov, a senior fellow at the Moscow Carnegie Centre, described Navalny's choice to return as "Brave". Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has urged the immediate release of Navalny, stressing that Russia is bound to protect civil rights.

`/u/curious_s` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzrdco/appalling_world_leaders_blast_russia_over_navalny/):

> Is 'blasting' more severe than 'slamming'?

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Amnesty International declares Navalny a prisoner of conscience.

Summary of [original article](https://www.amnesty.org.uk/press-releases/russia-navalny-prisoner-conscience-after-moscow-arrest):

> Prominent Kremlin critic Aleksei Navalny arrested on arrival at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport. "Aleksei Navalny's arrest is further evidence that the Russian authorities are seeking to silence him." "All Navalny supporters and journalists detained in Moscow Vnukovo Airport must be immediately and unconditionally released. Their only crime is wishing to greet Aleksei Navalny or to cover his arrival in Russia."

`/u/asdkevinasd` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzqj0j/amnesty_international_declares_navalny_a_prisoner/):

> And we will all do absolutely nothing to help or stop Russia, said EU.
> 
> Edit: I mean EU will do nothing. Write to your representatives, both local and national, campaign against Russian gas, rocket engines, firearms, diamonds, etc. You can do something. We can do something. Just typing your angry comment here will do absolutely nothing, just like the EU. Strong words on a note in Putin's rubbish bin.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## A British man who snuck out of his Ritz-Carlton hotel room to see his fiancée while in quarantine in Singapore faces up to 6 months in jail

Summary of [original article](https://www.insider.com/british-man-left-singapore-quarantine-hotel-room-jail-2021-1):

> A 52-year-old British man who was charged in court on Friday with violating Singapore's notoriously strict quarantine rules could face up to six months in prison or a fine of about $7,500- or both - according to the city-state's immigration authority. Nigel's fiancée, Agatha Maghesh Eyamalai, who was not in quarantine but who had booked another room in the same hotel, was also charged with abetting Nigel's breach of the quarantine requirements, per ICA. Singapore has kept its COVID-19 numbers low in recent months by strictly enforcing a 14-day quarantine for incoming foreign workers and citizens. The quarantine period has helped Singapore greatly reduce its overall number of COVID cases and deaths.

`/u/beIIe-and-sebastian` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzka7k/a_british_man_who_snuck_out_of_his_ritzcarlton/):

> Literally going to Horny Jail.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Egypt Denied an Oxygen Failure Killed Covid Patients. We Found That It Did

Summary of [original article](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/18/world/middleeast/egypt-hospital-oxygen-virus.html?action=click&module=Spotlight&pgtype=Homepage):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article. (ERROR: <class 'simplejson.errors.JSONDecodeError'>)

`/u/the-player-of-games` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kztdre/egypt_denied_an_oxygen_failure_killed_covid/):

> >EL HUSSEINEYA, Egypt — A cry pierced the night from the balcony of an Egyptian hospital. A nurse was screaming that the patients in the Covid intensive care unit were gasping for air.
> 
> >Ahmed Nafei, who was standing outside, brushed past a security guard, dashed in and saw that his 62-year-old aunt was dead.
> 
> >Furious, he whipped out his phone and began filming. It appeared that the hospital had run out of oxygen. Monitors were beeping. A nurse was visibly distressed and cowering in a corner as her colleagues tried to resuscitate a man using a manual ventilator.
> 
> >Mr. Nafei’s 47-second video this month of the chaos at El Husseineya Central Hospital, about two and a half hours northeast of Cairo, went viral on social media.
> 
> >As outrage grew, the government denied that the hospital had run out of oxygen.
> 
> >An official statement issued the following day concluded that the four who died had suffered from “complications” and denied that the deaths had “any connection” to an oxygen shortage. Security officers interrogated Mr. Nafei, and officials blamed him for violating rules barring visitation and filming inside hospitals.
> 
> >A New York Times investigation, however, found otherwise.
> 
> >Witnesses, including medical staff and relatives of patients, said in interviews that the oxygen pressure had fallen to precipitously low levels. At least three patients, they said, and possibly a fourth, had died of oxygen deprivation. A close analysis of the video by doctors in Egypt and the United States confirmed that the chaotic scene in the I.C.U. indicated an interruption in the oxygen supply.
> 
> >The fatal oxygen shortage was the end result of a cascade of problems at the hospital, our investigation found. By the time patients were suffocating in the I.C.U., a relief delivery of oxygen that had been ordered was already hours late and a backup oxygen system had failed.
> 
> >“We’re not going to bury our heads in the sand and pretend everything is OK,” a doctor at the hospital said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he feared arrest. “The whole world can admit there’s a problem, but not us.”
> 
> >The government’s rush to deny the episode is only the latest example of the lack of transparency in its response to the Covid crisis, which has led to cynicism and distrust of its public assurances.
> 
> >For many Egyptians, Mr. Nafei’s video offered a rare and uncensored view of the coronavirus’s real toll at the peak of Egypt’s second wave of the pandemic.
> 
> >The government acknowledged that four people in the intensive care ward died that day, Jan. 2, but denied that it was because of an oxygen shortage.
> 
> >The Health Ministry statement said that the patients who died were mostly elderly, that they died at different times and that at least a dozen other patients, including newborns in incubators, were linked to the same oxygen network and were not affected. Those factors, it said, confirmed “the lack of a connection between the deaths and allegations made about a shortage of oxygen.”
> 
> >Medical staff verified that the hospital’s oxygen supply had not been completely depleted, but said that the pressure was dangerously low. It was even worse in the intensive care unit, they said, and insufficient to keep patients alive. I.C.U. vents may have been at the end of the network, they explained, or the pipeline may have had other inefficiencies.
> 
> >Efforts by hospital staff to address the shortage were thwarted by further breakdowns. When they tried to switch the oxygen supply in the I.C.U. from the hospital’s main tank to the backup reserve, the reserve system appeared to be overloaded and failed.
> 
> >Earlier in the day, aware that they were running low, hospital officials had requested more oxygen from the Health Ministry. But the delivery truck, which was due in the afternoon, arrived more than three hours late.
> 
> >“If it had arrived by 6 p.m., none of this would have happened,” the hospital doctor said.
> 
> >The medical experts who analyzed the video, including six doctors in the United States and Egypt, spotted details that support the finding of an oxygen failure.
> 
> >In the video, none of the patients appear to be connected to the central oxygen line.
> 
> >One doctor is using a portable tank, typically used in emergencies and only temporarily. And just a few feet away, a group of nurses are seen trying to resuscitate a patient with a manual pump that does not appear to be connected to an oxygen source.
> 
> >“There’s no oxygen tube connected to the airbag,” said Dr. Hicham Alnachawati, a New York urgent care physician who has worked in hospital I.C.U.s. “He’s being given free air, basically. It doesn’t happen. It’s impossible unless you have no oxygen.”
> 
> >Another doctor who reviewed the video, Dr. Bushra Mina, the Egyptian-American chief of pulmonology at Lenox Hill Hospital who has cared for hundreds of Covid-19 patients in New York, noted the “urgency” of the doctor and nurses in the video “trying to get emergency oxygen supply or supplementation to the patients.”
> 
> >“It can be overwhelming, even in the U.S., where you have a lot of resources,” Dr. Mina said. “So imagine Egypt, where resources are limited and you’re beyond your capacity.”
> 
> >The oxygen crisis at El Husseineya Central Hospital may not have been the only one.
> 
> >Signs of shortages at other hospitals flooded social media for a week. One hospital director issued a plea on social media for people to donate portable oxygen tanks, citing a “critical need.” A patient in a different hospital filmed himself in the isolation ward saying, “We don’t have enough oxygen.” And video of a scene similar to the one that Mr. Nafei had witnessed circulated online.
> 
> >These claims could not be independently verified.
> 
> >“Is there a real problem?” asked Ayman Sabae, a researcher at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, a human rights group. “No one can claim to have that information except the government.”
> 
> >The government’s record during the crisis has not inspired confidence that it is leveling with Egyptians.
> 
> >President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has denounced critics of government coronavirus efforts as “enemies of the state.” His security services expelled a foreign journalist who questioned the official toll. The public prosecutor has warned that anyone spreading “false news” about the coronavirus faces up to five years’ imprisonment.
> 
> >And the government has engaged in a bitter feud with doctors, who revolted earlier in the pandemic over a lack of protective equipment. A number of the doctors were thrown in jail.
> 
> >“They’re trying to control the narrative, they’re trying to make sure that things look like they’re under control and a part of that is to control the information that’s communicated to the public,” Mr. Sabae said. “I don’t have a problem with that if the government is going to supply us with credible information that we can rely on.”
> 
> >Instead, when the video of El Husseineya Central Hospital emerged, the response amounted to telling Egyptians not to believe what they saw.
> 
> >“This is not a scene that shows a shortage in oxygen,” said Mamdouh Ghorab, the governor of Al Sharqiya, the governorate that includes El Husseineya Central Hospital. He was speaking on a pro-government television program that did not interview or invite any witnesses to challenge the official narrative.
> 
> >Even the official numbers are suspect. Egypt has reported over 150,000 Covid cases and over 8,000 deaths, remarkably low numbers for the region and for a country of over 100 million people.
> 
> >But outside experts and even some government officials say that both figures are vast undercounts, mainly because of lack of widespread testing and because the labs that do test do not always report their results to the government.
> 
> >Even as it denied the oxygen shortage at El Husseineya Central, officials began to take steps to address the problem, tacitly acknowledging it.
> 
> >The minister of health, Hala Zayed, acknowledged a shortage of oxygen delivery trucks and delays in distribution. President Sisi asked the government to double the production of oxygen in order to meet the spike in demand.
> 
> >The government took another action apparently in response to the video of the crisis in El Husseineya Central. Visitors are now required to leave their phones at the door.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## Rescuers detect signs of life from 22 trapped Chinese miners a week after blast

Summary of [original article](https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/rescuers-detect-signs-of-life-from-22-trapped-chinese-miners):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article. (ERROR: <class 'simplejson.errors.JSONDecodeError'>)

`/u/duguxy` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzjaes/rescuers_detect_signs_of_life_from_22_trapped/):

> Rescuers sent flashlight, nutrient solution and medicine with wire through a hole just drilled, and got a handwritten note at the end of the wire
> 
> [It says](https://obj.shine.cn/files/2021/01/18/28991d5c-2d35-4e24-a36d-d55a988eb255_0.jpg)
> 
> > 急需降压药，我车上有两种，请把药带下来。由于井下空气不流通，炮烟浓度大，现在井下水特别大。望救援不停，我们就有希望，谢谢你们了。我们在井下22人，但在五中段有11人，六中1人4个受伤，另有十人情况不明。现在大家体力透支严重，急需感冒药、止痛药，医用胶带、外用消炎药，另有3人有高血压。
> 
> > There is an urgent need for antihypertensive medicine. There are two kinds of medicine in my car. Please bring the medicine down. Due to the lack of air circulation in the well, the smoke of explosion is thick, and the well is flooded. Hope that the rescue continues. There's still hope. Thank you. 22 people were in the mine. 11 of them in the 5th middle section, 1 in the sixth middle, 4 injured, and the last 10 unclear. Now everyone is suffering from severe physical exhaustion and is in urgent need of cold medicine, painkillers, medical tape, and topical anti-inflammatory drugs. Another 3 people have high blood pressure.

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

## France calls for immediate release of Kremlin dissident Navalny

Summary of [original article](https://www.reuters.com/article/russia-politics-navalny-france/france-calls-for-immediate-release-of-kremlin-dissident-navalny-idUSL8N2JS0OL):

> 1 Min Read.PARIS, Jan 17 - France's foreign ministry on Sunday called for the immediate release of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny after he was arrested on his return to Moscow. "France takes note with great concern of the arrest in Russia of Mr. Alexei Navalny," foreign ministry spokeswoman Agnes von der Muhll said in a statement. "With its European partners, it is following the situation with the utmost vigilance and call for his immediate release."

`/u/musictho` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/kzkjk5/france_calls_for_immediate_release_of_kremlin/):

> Why the fuck did this guy go back to Russia so soon?

[Why am I seeing this on Google Docs?](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc6We63vOXIZsc0op-Bt4abqkYjXzOigalQqFxmvvbM/edit?usp=sharing)

