# Today's Highlights from /r/coronavirus

Date and time of publication of these highlights: **Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 12:59**.

## Fauci: "WHO 'not correct' in suggesting asymptomatic spread of Covid-19 is very rare". Fauci said WHO "walked that back because there's no evidence to indicate that's the case," and explained evidence shows between 25% to 45% of infected people likely are without symptoms.

Summary of [original article](https://edition.cnn.com/world/live-news/coronavirus-pandemic-06-10-20-intl/h_3cd73ecd8ce1910f69541e91534e39bc):

> The US government will fund and conduct key studies on three experimental coronavirus vaccines - those developed by Moderna, Oxford University/AstraZeneca, and Johnson & Johnson, Dr. Anthony Fauci confirmed to CNN.Phase three trials, which typically involve tens of thousands of people and measure whether a vaccine is safe and effective, will begin with Moderna in July, then Oxford/AstraZeneca in August and Johnson & Johnson in September. "The coronavirus vaccine effort is progressing very well and we expect more than one candidate vaccine to be in advanced clinical testing by early summer," Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told Sciutto. The US government might also plan phase three trials for additional coronavirus vaccines currently in development.

`/u/bearbrobro` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/h0a6a3/fauci_who_not_correct_in_suggesting_asymptomatic/):

> Who the fuck runs media at who? This is like the 10th time they've made a serious blunder with messaging.

## "People who do not show symptoms contribute to significant COVID-19 transmission, contrary to CNBC report" - Facebook flagging shares of original CNBC report as misleading information

Summary of [original article](https://healthfeedback.org/evaluation/people-who-do-not-show-symptoms-contribute-to-significant-covid-19-transmission-contrary-to-cnbc-report/):

> Individuals who do not show symptoms initially or who show only a few symptoms would fall under a layperson's definition of "Asymptomatic", whereas such cases would not be considered asymptomatic according to the scientific definition which the WHO uses. In short, people who do not show symptoms can be a significant source of transmission. A key question has been whether transmission is from pre-symptomatic people who develop symptoms later or truly asymptomatic people who never do.

`/u/Kidnovatex` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/h085zz/people_who_do_not_show_symptoms_contribute_to/):

> Facebook or the WHO...which to believe?   .  .  .  .  No, I'm serious, I don't know which one I trust less.

## Widespread mask-wearing could prevent COVID-19 second waves-study

Summary of [original article](https://uk.reuters.com/article/uk-health-coronavirus-masks-study/widespread-mask-wearing-could-prevent-covid-19-second-waves-study-idUKKBN23G38L?il=0):

> LONDON - Population-wide face mask use could push COVID-19 transmission down to controllable levels for national epidemics, and could prevent further waves of the pandemic disease when combined with lockdowns, according to a British study on Wednesday. He said combining widespread mask use with social distancing and some lockdown measures, could be "An acceptable way of managing the pandemic and re-opening economic activity" before the development of an effective vaccine against COVID-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus. In all scenarios the study looked at, routine face mask use by 50% or more of the population reduced COVID-19 spread to an R of less than 1.0, flattening future disease waves and allowing for less stringent lockdowns.

`/u/agreeingstorm9` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/h07c75/widespread_maskwearing_could_prevent_covid19/):

> The ship has sailed on widespread mask use in the US.  It's not going to happen.  It has turned into a political issue instead of a health issue and now half the country is going to oppose them.  I had an argument with someone the other day who said that wearing masks is rooted in "fear and paranoia."  He felt that mask usage should be discouraged because people are wearing masks and committing mass shootings and other crimes and that mask wearing endangers the entire population.  He couldn't point to a single example of this happening but claimed the threat of a mass shooting committed by a mask wearer who then disappears and you can't find them because the mask obscures their identity is a very, very real threat and we shouldn't have masks in order to prevent it.  It's ridiculous.

## COVID-19 surge in Texas sparks reopening fears

Summary of [original article](https://thehill.com/homenews/coronavirus-report/501969-texas-coronavirus-case-surge-sparks-fears-amid-reopening):

> Rising coronavirus cases and hospitalizations in Texas are underscoring fears about the danger of reopening. "Current hospital capacity includes 15,402 available beds, 1,723 ICU beds and 5,911 ventilators, with the ability to surge capacity in regions across the state if necessary." Banner Health, the state's largest hospital system, warned last week that "If these trends continue, Banner will soon need to exercise its surge plan to increase ICU capacity."

`/u/CuntyAnne_Conway` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/h09imv/covid19_surge_in_texas_sparks_reopening_fears/):

> >There has also been an element of unpredictability, though, given that some states, like Georgia, which drew national scrutiny after moving quickly to reopen, have not yet seen spikes in cases.  I dont trust Georgia to tell the truth. Gov Kemp has a sketchy history and I really find it difficult that all these surrounding states are increasing and Georgia isnt.

## Widespread mask-wearing could prevent COVID-19 second waves, study shows

Summary of [original article](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-masks-study/widespread-mask-wearing-could-prevent-covid-19-second-waves-study-shows-idUSKBN23G37V):

> LONDON - Population-wide facemask use could push COVID-19 transmission down to controllable levels for national epidemics and could prevent further waves of the pandemic disease when combined with lockdowns, according to a UK study published Wednesday. In all scenarios the study looked at, routine facemask use by 50% or more of the population reduced COVID-19 spread to an R of less than 1.0, flattening future disease waves and allowing for less stringent lockdowns. "We have little to lose from the widespread adoption of facemasks, but the gains could be significant," said Renata Retkute, who co-led the study.

`/u/Pugasaurus_Tex` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/h001cp/widespread_maskwearing_could_prevent_covid19/):

> Good thing we made it a political issue. Like one third of people I see in South Florida are wearing masks at all.

