# Today's Highlights from /r/coronavirus

Date and time of publication of these highlights: **Saturday, July 04, 2020, 22:52**.

## Over 700 healthcare workers in the United States have died fighting the Coronavirus this year.

Summary of [original article](https://khn.org/news/lost-on-the-frontline-health-care-worker-death-toll-covid19-coronavirus/):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article.

`/u/Sound-the-Reveille` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/hlakf1/over_700_healthcare_workers_in_the_united_states/):

> Selfless people that are being let down by their selfish brothers and sisters.

## Bill Gates blames social media platforms for COVID-19 spread in U.S. The "crazy ideas" include misinformation convincing people to not wear masks, and conspiracy theories about vaccines to combat the disease.

Summary of [original article](https://news.cgtn.com/news/2020-07-04/Bill-Gates-blames-social-media-platforms-for-COVID-19-spread-in-U-S--RR9BfgELUk/index.html):

> Microsoft founder Bill Gates blamed social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter for the spread of misinformation about COVID-19 during the pandemic. "Can the social media companies be more helpful on these issues? What creativity do we have? Sadly, the digital tools probably have been a net contributor to spreading what I consider crazy ideas," Gates said in an interview with American business magazine Fast Company. "We need to make it [a vaccine] without just focusing on one country, we need to make it for the entire world, including for countries that don't have the resources to pay for vaccine research or vaccine factories," said Gates.

`/u/justanotherzom` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/hl3m5y/bill_gates_blames_social_media_platforms_for/):

> Nothing surprises me anymore. Literally people vote to have their rights removed and rejoice to it, love it, and won't see the fact of what they are doing.
> 
> Same as people choosing to danger themselves and others by fighting against the social distancing measures as if wearing a mask will some how damage your rights.
> 
> Social media has a lot to answer for.

## Lake Tahoe (California) expecting 77,000 visitors over 4th of July weekend

Summary of [original article](https://www.abc10.com/article/news/health/coronavirus/tahoe-expecting-77000-visitors-over-fourth-of-july-weekend/103-51bf3b02-a702-4533-a7b0-02e0b44d4327?repost):

> Calif. - Tahoe draws millions of visitors from around the world year-round, especially during the Fourth of July, one of the hottest weekends for Tahoe tourism. "Our population is about 23,000 full-time residents and we'll probably see close to 100,000 people in South Lake Tahoe this weekend," said South Lake Tahoe Mayor Collin. Having visitors is a fine line for the Tahoe region, as they want to maintain their economy's health - which heavily relies on tourism - while also protecting the physical health of residents and visitors alike.

`/u/eastlywestern` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/hl7xdi/lake_tahoe_california_expecting_77000_visitors/):

> Please upvote this post, we need some attention. I am a full-time resident of Lake Tahoe (there aren't many of us, ~19,000) and we have been completely abandoned by local and state governments. The past three weekends have been insane, and I have been in genuine shock at the amount of people coming here. Every single casino, bar, restaurant, hotel is open, and while they all say "masks required" I would say maybe 1 in 100 are wearing masks. There are huge crowds at every beach, worse than those photos of Lake of the Ozarks, but on a massive scale. And, again, NO ONE is wearing masks.
> 
> We will never know how much COVID impacted Lake Tahoe. People will be coming here, getting sick, going home, and getting tested in their home communities. High profile tourist restaurants have had employees testing positive after reporting "thousands" of patrons served in a single day, and that was weeks ago, not even 4th of July. 
> 
> In Gov. Newsom's plan to close restaurants etc. in 19 counties yesterday, we were not on it, despite having insane tourist numbers. Our mayor, Jason Collin, rolled over for business owners like a coward. 
> 
> Thanks for reading.

## American couple charged for not self-quarantining after entering Canada

Summary of [original article](https://www.tbnewswatch.com/local-news/american-couple-charged-for-not-self-quarantining-after-entering-canada-2540045):

> THUNDER BAY - A pair of Excelsior, Minn. residents have been fined $1,000 apiece for not complying with mandatory self-quarantine rules after crossing into Canada. The Ontario Provincial Police on Saturday said the pair were instructed by Canada Border Service Agency workers to proceed directly to their destination and remain there for 14 days, after arriving at a crossing in Fort Frances, Ont. David Sippell, 66, and Anne Sippell, 65, were charged with failure to comply with an order or subjecting to any condition the entry into Canada, under the Quarantine Act.

`/u/gooseman1967` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/hlcdux/american_couple_charged_for_not_selfquarantining/):

> So Canada actually holds people accountable? I wish that would happen here.

## Ohio ice cream shop: Stop yelling at our teenage employees about masks

Summary of [original article](https://wreg.com/news/ohio-ice-cream-shop-stop-yelling-at-our-teenage-employees-about-masks/):

> BEREA, Ohio- An ice cream shop in Ohio has a message for people who yell at employees: Respect them or go somewhere else. Mootown Creamery posted on its Facebook page Tuesday morning about customers mistreating workers, who are mostly teenage girls, for wearing state-required masks during the coronavirus pandemic. The owner made the decision to also require guests to wear masks while in the store, saying it's for the protection of employees and customers.

`/u/ONE-OF-THREE` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/hlfezn/ohio_ice_cream_shop_stop_yelling_at_our_teenage/):

> >BEREA, Ohio (WJW)– An ice cream shop in Ohio has a message for people who yell at employees: Respect them or go somewhere else.
> 
> >Mootown Creamery posted on its Facebook page Tuesday morning about customers mistreating workers, who are mostly teenage girls, for wearing state-required masks during the coronavirus pandemic.
> 
> >The owner made the decision to also require guests to wear masks while in the store, saying it’s for the protection of employees and customers.
> 
> >“Do you know how hard it is to work a summer rush in a face mask? With a line of customers to the door, some waiting outside, online orders dinging on a tablet, the phone ringing off the hook — and then have a customer throw a temper tantrum in the store calling the girls ‘paranoid’ or ‘anti-American’ or even worse – CUSS AT THEM! (Does it feel good to make a 16 year old girl cry in the bathroom? Or sob on her way home from work? Does that make you feel better about Covid? How would you feel if someone did this to your child?)” Mootown Creamery wrote.
> 
> >“Covid is one of the most awful things many of us have experienced in our lifetime. Our lives are flipped upside down. Businesses are closing. Some of us are still out of work. We are stressed out, worried, and frustrated. However that is no excuse to take out your frustrations on teenage kids serving ice cream! (Most of which this is their first job!) Are you serious?! What control do they possibly have over the situation?”

## Utah woman who survived COVID-19 says 5-week hospital stay cost $795K

Summary of [original article](https://kutv.com/news/coronavirus/i-was-so-close-to-death-says-utah-woman-still-recovering-from-covid-19):

> Sorry, we were unable to get the summary of this article.

`/u/catch_me_if_you_can` [comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/hlbyp9/utah_woman_who_survived_covid19_says_5week/):

> >UPDATE: A spokesperson with Mountain Star Healthcare says they are in the process of notifying Toscano to inform her that all treatment costs will be covered entirely by insurance and she will not be responsible for any out of pocket expense.
> 
> From the top of the article.

